docs: Add multiuser documentation and reposition Workflows (#9099)
invoke-ai/InvokeAI: docs/src/content/docs/features/Multi-User Mode/api-guide.mdx

```

**Response:**

```json
{
  {
    "user_id": "abc123",
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "display_name": "John Doe",
    "is_admin": false,
    "is_active": true,
    "created_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
    "updated_at": "2024-04-25T17:23:00Z",
    "last_login_at": "2024-01-15T15:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### Create User

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/users`

**Request:**

```json
{
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "New User",
  "password": "TempPassword123",
  "is_admin": false
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "xyz789",
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "New User",
  "is_admin": false,
  "is_active": true,
  "created_at": "2024-01-15T16:00:00Z"
}
```

#### Update User

**Endpoint:** `PATCH /api/v1/auth/users/{user_id}`

**Request:**

```json
{
  "display_name": "Updated Name",
  "is_active": true,
  "is_admin": false
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "xyz789",
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "Updated Name",
  "is_admin": false,
  "is_active": true
}
```

#### Delete User

**Endpoint:** `DELETE /api/v1/auth/users/{user_id}`

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true
}

> ```

Reviewer: On success it returns a `204 No Content` not a json with status. If there's an error the response is 422 with json:
```
{
  "detail": [
    {
      "loc": [
        "string",
        0
      ],
      "msg": "string",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
```

Author: Thanks for picking that one up. Fixed.

#### List Image Boards

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/boards/`

**Response:**

```json
{
  "limit": 0,
  "offset": 0,
  "total": 0,
  "items": [
    {
      "board_id": "8b31a33d-0acb-46fe-8612-83601481cf2c",
      "board_name": "Testing Board",
      "user_id": "string",
      "created_at": "2026-05-07T03:04:00.738Z",
      "updated_at": "2026-05-07T03:04:00.738Z",
      "deleted_at": "2026-05-07T03:04:00.738Z",
      "cover_image_name": "string",
      "archived": false,
      "board_visibility": "private",
      "image_count": 0,
      "asset_count": 0,
      "owner_username": "string"
    }
  ]
}
```

This returns a paged response. See the swagger page (`http://localhost:9090/docs#/boards/list_boards`) for details.
The `board_visibility` field will be one of:

- `private` -- private to the owner and administrator
- `shared` -- read/write to the owner and administrator, read-only to everyone else
- `public` -- read/write by everyone

> #### List One Boards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Get One Board
```

Author: Fixed

class APIClient:
    def __init__(self):
        self.token = None

    def login(self, email, password):
        response = requests.post(
            "http://localhost:9090/api/v1/auth/login",
            json={"email": email, "password": password}
        )
        self.token = response.json()["token"]

    def get_boards(self):
        headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {self.token}"}
        response = requests.get(
            "http://localhost:9090/api/v1/boards/",
            headers=headers
        )
        return response.json()

# Usage
client = APIClient()
client.login("user@example.com", "password")
boards = client.get_boards()
```

### Backward Compatibility

InvokeAI supports both single-user and multi-user modes via the `multiuser` configuration option.

**Configuration:**

```yaml
# invokeai.yaml

# Single-user mode (no authentication)
multiuser: false  # or omit the option entirely

# Multi-user mode (authentication required)
multiuser: true
```

**Checking Mode Programmatically:**

```python
def is_multiuser_enabled(base_url):
    """Check if multi-user mode is enabled (authentication required)."""
    response = requests.get(f"{base_url}/api/v1/boards/")

>     return response.status_code == 401  # 401 = auth required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def is_multiuser_enabled(base_url):
       response = requests.get(f"{base_url}/api/v1/auth/status")
       response.raise_for_status()
       return response.json()["multiuser_enabled"]
```
This is exposed in the auth status like so

---
title: Multi-User API Guide
description: How to authenticate and interact with the InvokeAI API in multi-user mode.
sidebar:
  order: 5
---
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'

## Overview

This guide explains how to interact with InvokeAI's API in both single-user and multi-user modes. The API behavior depends on the `multiuser` configuration setting.

### Single-User vs Multi-User Mode

**Single-User Mode** (`multiuser: false` or option absent):

- No authentication required
- All API endpoints accessible without tokens
- Direct API access like previous InvokeAI versions
- All content visible in unified view

**Multi-User Mode** (`multiuser: true`):

- JWT token authentication required
- User-scoped access to resources
- Role-based authorization (admin vs regular user)
- Data isolation between users

## Authentication (Multi-User Mode Only)

### Authentication Flow

> When multi-user mode is enabled, all API endpoints (except `/api/v1/auth/setup` and `/api/v1/auth/login`) require authentication using JWT (JSON Web Token) bearer tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multi-user mode is enabled, most API endpoints require authentication using JWT bearer tokens. The unauthenticated authentication endpoints are `GET /api/v1/auth/status`, `POST /api/v1/auth/setup`, and `POST /api/v1/auth/login`.
```

**Authentication Process:**

<Steps>
1. **Obtain Token**: POST credentials to `/api/v1/auth/login`
2. **Store Token**: Save the JWT token securely
3. **Use Token**: Include token in `Authorization` header for all requests
4. **Refresh**: Re-authenticate when token expires
</Steps>

:::note[Single-User Mode]
When running in single-user mode (`multiuser: false`), authentication endpoints are not available and authentication headers are not required.
:::

### Login Endpoint

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/login`

**Request:**

```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "SecurePassword123",
  "remember_me": false
}
```

**Response (Success):**

```json
{
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
  "user": {
    "user_id": "abc123",
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "display_name": "John Doe",
    "is_admin": false,
    "is_active": true,
    "created_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z"

>     "updated_at": 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "updated_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
    "last_login_at": "2024-01-15T15:30:00Z"
```

Author: fixed

    if (!this.token) {
      throw new Error('Not authenticated');
    }
    return {
      'Authorization': `Bearer ${this.token}`,
      'Content-Type': 'application/json',
    };
  }

  async getBoards(): Promise<{ items: Board[] }> {
    const response = await fetch(`${this.baseUrl}/api/v1/boards/`, {
      headers: this.getHeaders(),
    });

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error('Failed to get boards');
    }

    return response.json();
  }
}
```

### cURL

**Login:**

```bash
# Login and extract token
TOKEN=$(curl -X POST http://localhost:9090/api/v1/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "password": "SecurePassword123",
    "remember_me": false
  }' | jq -r '.token')

echo "Token: $TOKEN"
```

**Get Boards:**

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:9090/api/v1/boards/ \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

**Create Board:**

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9090/api/v1/boards/ \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "board_name": "My API Board"
  }'
```

**Generate Image:**

```bash

> curl -X POST http://localhost:9090/api/v1/sessions/ \

Reviewer: This endpoint does not exist

Author: Something was hallucinating. Wouldn't it be nice to have a simple image generation endpoint?

Reviewer: It would be

  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "prompt": "A beautiful landscape",
    "width": 512,
    "height": 512,
    "steps": 30
  }'
```

## API Endpoint Changes

### Authentication Required

All endpoints now require authentication except:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /api/v1/auth/status` — Check whether multi-user setup is required
- `POST /api/v1/auth/setup` — Initial admin setup
- `POST /api/v1/auth/login` — User login
```

Author: fixed

- `POST /api/v1/auth/setup` — Initial admin setup
- `POST /api/v1/auth/login` — User login

### User-Scoped Resources

Resources are now filtered by the authenticated user:

**Boards:**

```python
# Before (single-user)
GET /api/v1/boards/  # Returns all boards

# After (multi-user)

> GET /api/v1/boards/  # Returns only current user's boards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before (single-user)
GET /api/v1/boards/?all=true  # Returns all boards

# After (multi-user)
GET /api/v1/boards/?all=true  # Returns boards the current user can access, including their own boards plus shared/public boards; admins can see all boards
```

Author: fixed

```

**Images:**

```python
# Images are filtered by board ownership
GET /api/v1/images/  # Only shows images on user's boards
```

**Workflows:**

```python
# Returns user's workflows + public workflows
GET /api/v1/workflows/
```

**Queue:**

```python
# Regular users see only their queue items
GET /api/v1/queue/  # User's queue items

# Administrators see all queue items

> GET /api/v1/queue/  # All users' queue items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Regular users see their own queue items in full and may see redacted details for other users' items on queue-status endpoints
GET /api/v1/queue/...  # Queue data, sanitized for non-admin viewers

# Administrators see all queue items in full
GET /api/v1/queue/...  # Full queue data
```

```

**Model Management (Write Operations):**

```python
POST   /api/v2/models/install          # Install model (admin only)
DELETE /api/v2/models/i/{key}          # Delete model (admin only)
PATCH  /api/v2/models/i/{key}          # Update model (admin only)
PUT    /api/v2/models/convert/{key}    # Convert model (admin only)
```

**Model Management (Read Operations):**

```python
GET /api/v2/models/                    # List models (all users)
GET /api/v2/models/i/{key}             # Get model details (all users)
```

### Error Responses

**401 Unauthorized:**

```json
{
  "detail": "Invalid authentication credentials"
}
```

Occurs when:

- Token is missing
- Token is invalid
- Token is expired
- Token signature is invalid

**403 Forbidden:**

```json
{
  "detail": "Admin privileges required"
}
```

Occurs when:

- User attempts admin-only operation
- Account is disabled
- Insufficient permissions

**404 Not Found:**

```json
{
  "detail": "Resource not found"
}
```

Occurs when:

- Resource doesn't exist
- User doesn't have access to resource

## Multiuser API Endpoints

### Authentication Endpoints

#### Check if initial administrator setup is required

> **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/status`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/auth/status`
```

Author: fixed

    return re.match(pattern, email) is not None

def validate_password(password):
    """Check password meets requirements."""
    if len(password) < 8:
        return False, "Password must be at least 8 characters"
    if not any(c.isupper() for c in password):
        return False, "Password must contain uppercase letters"
    if not any(c.islower() for c in password):
        return False, "Password must contain lowercase letters"
    if not any(c.isdigit() for c in password):
        return False, "Password must contain numbers"
    return True, ""
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Issue: "Invalid authentication credentials"**

- Token expired — re-authenticate
- Token malformed — check token string
- Token signature invalid — check secret key hasn't changed

**Issue: "Admin privileges required"**

- User is not an administrator
- Use admin account for this operation

**Issue: Token not being sent**

- Check `Authorization` header is present
- Verify `Bearer` prefix is included
- Check token isn't truncated

**Issue: CORS errors**

Configure CORS in InvokeAI:

```yaml
# invokeai.yaml
cors_origins:
  - "http://localhost:3000"

>   - "https://myapp.example.com"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow_origins:
  - "http://localhost:3000"
  - "https://myapp.example.com"
allow_credentials: true
allow_methods:
  - "*"
allow_headers:
  - "*"
```

Author: fixed

---
title: Multi-User API Guide
description: How to authenticate and interact with the InvokeAI API in multi-user mode.
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

## Overview

This guide explains how to interact with InvokeAI's API in both single-user and multi-user modes. The API behavior depends on the `multiuser` configuration setting.

### Single-User vs Multi-User Mode

**Single-User Mode** (`multiuser: false` or option absent):

- No authentication required
- All API endpoints accessible without tokens
- Direct API access like previous InvokeAI versions
- All content visible in unified view

**Multi-User Mode** (`multiuser: true`):

- JWT token authentication required
- User-scoped access to resources
- Role-based authorization (admin vs regular user)
- Data isolation between users

## Authentication (Multi-User Mode Only)

### Authentication Flow

When multi-user mode is enabled, all API endpoints (except `/api/v1/auth/setup` and `/api/v1/auth/login`) require authentication using JWT (JSON Web Token) bearer tokens.

**Authentication Process:**

> 

Reviewer: Use `<Steps>` component here

  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "prompt": "A beautiful landscape",
    "width": 512,
    "height": 512,
    "steps": 30
  }'
```

## API Endpoint Changes

### Authentication Required

All endpoints now require authentication except:

- `POST /api/v1/auth/setup` — Initial admin setup
- `POST /api/v1/auth/login` — User login

### User-Scoped Resources

Resources are now filtered by the authenticated user:

**Boards:**

```python
# Before (single-user)
GET /api/v1/boards/  # Returns all boards

# After (multi-user)
GET /api/v1/boards/  # Returns only current user's boards
```

**Images:**

```python
# Images are filtered by board ownership
GET /api/v1/images/  # Only shows images on user's boards
```

**Workflows:**

```python
# Returns user's workflows + public workflows
GET /api/v1/workflows/
```

**Queue:**

```python
# Regular users see only their queue items
GET /api/v1/queue/  # User's queue items

# Administrators see all queue items
GET /api/v1/queue/  # All users' queue items
```

### Administrator Endpoints

Some endpoints require administrator privileges:

**User Management:**

```python

> GET    /api/v1/users           # List users (admin only)

Reviewer: These all should begin with `/api/v1/auth/users`

Author: Fixed. Thank you.

POST   /api/v1/users           # Create user (admin only)
GET    /api/v1/users/{id}      # Get user (admin only)
PATCH  /api/v1/users/{id}      # Update user (admin only)
DELETE /api/v1/users/{id}      # Delete user (admin only)
```

**Model Management (Write Operations):**

```python

> POST   /api/v1/models/install          # Install model (admin only)

Reviewer: These are all `/api/v2/models`

Author: Fixed.

DELETE /api/v1/models/i/{key}          # Delete model (admin only)
PATCH  /api/v1/models/i/{key}          # Update model (admin only)
PUT    /api/v1/models/convert/{key}    # Convert model (admin only)
```

**Model Management (Read Operations):**

```python

> GET /api/v1/models/                    # List models (all users)

Reviewer: `/api/v2/models`

Author: Fixed

**404 Not Found:**

```json
{
  "detail": "Resource not found"
}
```

Occurs when:

- Resource doesn't exist
- User doesn't have access to resource

## New API Endpoints

### Authentication Endpoints

#### Setup Administrator

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/setup`

**Description:** Create initial administrator account (only works if no admin exists)

**Request:**

```json
{
  "email": "admin@example.com",
  "display_name": "Administrator",
  "password": "SecureAdminPass123"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "user": {
    "user_id": "abc123",
    "email": "admin@example.com",
    "display_name": "Administrator",
    "is_admin": true,
    "is_active": true
  }
}
```

#### Get Current User

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/auth/me`

**Description:** Get currently authenticated user's information

**Request:**

```http
GET /api/v1/auth/me
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "abc123",
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "display_name": "John Doe",
  "is_admin": false,
  "is_active": true,
  "created_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
  "last_login_at": "2024-01-15T15:30:00Z"
}
```

#### Change Password

> **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/change-password`

Reviewer: This does not exist

Author: Removed docs.

**Description:** Change current user's password

**Request:**

```json
{
  "current_password": "OldPassword123",
  "new_password": "NewPassword456"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true
}
```

### User Management Endpoints (Admin Only)

#### List Users

> **Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/users`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/auth/users`
```

Author: Fixed.

**Request:**

```http

> GET /api/v1/users?page=1&per_page=20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GET /api/v1/auth/users?page=1&per_page=20
```

Reviewer: This is also not a paginated list

Authorization: Bearer <admin_token>
```

**Response:**

> ```json

Reviewer: Returns a plain array, no pagination

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer: Shape needs to be:
```
[
  {
    "user_id": "string",
    "email": "string",
    "display_name": "string",
    "is_admin": false,
    "is_active": true,
    "created_at": "2026-05-07T21:12:09.008Z",
    "updated_at": "2026-05-07T21:12:09.008Z",
    "last_login_at": "2026-05-07T21:12:09.008Z"
  }
]
```
Returns a plain array without `items`

Reviewer: this

Author: Fixed for real this time.

{
  "items": [
    {
      "user_id": "abc123",
      "email": "user@example.com",
      "display_name": "John Doe",
      "is_admin": false,
      "is_active": true,

>       "created_at": "2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",

Reviewer: Add `updated_at` field below here

Author: Done.

      "last_login_at": "2024-01-15T15:30:00Z"
    }
  ],
  "page": 1,
  "pages": 1,
  "per_page": 20,
  "total": 5
}
```

#### Create User

> **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/users`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/auth/users`
```

Author: Fixed.

**Request:**

```json
{
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "New User",
  "password": "TempPassword123",
  "is_admin": false
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "xyz789",
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "New User",
  "is_admin": false,
  "is_active": true,
  "created_at": "2024-01-15T16:00:00Z"
}
```

#### Update User

> **Endpoint:** `PATCH /api/v1/users/{user_id}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Endpoint:** `PATCH /api/v1/auth/users/{user_id}`
```

Author: Fixed.

**Request:**

```json
{
  "display_name": "Updated Name",
  "is_active": true,
  "is_admin": false
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "xyz789",
  "email": "newuser@example.com",
  "display_name": "Updated Name",
  "is_admin": false,
  "is_active": true
}
```

#### Delete User

> **Endpoint:** `DELETE /api/v1/users/{user_id}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Endpoint:** `DELETE /api/v1/auth/users/{user_id}`
```

Author: Fixed.

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true
}
```

#### Reset User Password

> **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/users/{user_id}/reset-password`

Reviewer: This does not exist

Author: Removed.

**Request:**

```json
{
  "new_password": "NewTempPass123"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true
}
```

### Board Sharing Endpoints

#### Share Board

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/boards/{board_id}/share`

**Request:**

```json
{
  "user_id": "user123",
  "permission": "write"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "share": {
    "board_id": "board456",
    "user_id": "user123",
    "permission": "write",
    "shared_at": "2024-01-15T16:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### List Board Shares

> **Endpoint:** `GET /api/v1/boards/{board_id}/shares`

Reviewer: This does not exist

Author: Replaced with correct documentation.
